pykerberos (1.1.5-1) unstable; urgency=medium
 
  The python-kerberos checkPassword() method has been badly insecure in
  previous releases. It used to do (and still does by default) a kinit
  (AS-REQ) to ask a KDC for a TGT for the given user principal, and
  interprets the success or failure of that as indicating whether the
  password is correct. It does not, however, verify that it actually spoke
  to a trusted KDC: an attacker may simply reply instead with an AS-REP
  which matches the password he just gave you.
  .
  Imagine you were verifying a password using LDAP authentication rather
  than Kerberos: you would, of course, use TLS in conjunction with LDAP to
  make sure you were talking to a real, trusted LDAP server. The same
  requirement applies here. kinit is not a password-verification service.
  .
  The usual way of doing this is to take the TGT you've obtained with the
  user's password, and then obtain a ticket for a principal for which the
  verifier has keys (e.g. a web server processing a username/password form
  login might get a ticket for its own HTTP/host@REALM principal), which
  it can then verify. Note that this requires that the verifier has its
  own Kerberos identity, which is mandated by the symmetric nature of
  Kerberos (whereas in the LDAP case, the use of public-key cryptography
  allows anonymous verification).
  .
  The fact of pykerberos being susceptible to KDC spoofing attacks has
  been filed as CVE-2015-3206.
  .
  With this version of the pykerberos package a new option is introduced
  for the checkPassword() method. Setting verify to True when using
  checkPassword() will perform a KDC verification. For this to work, you
  need to provide a krb5.keytab file containing service principal keys for
  the service you intend to use.
  .
  As the default krb5.keytab file in /etc is normally not accessible by
  non-root users/processes, you have to make sure a custom krb5.keytab
  file containing the correct principal keys is provided to your
  application using the KRB5_KTNAME environment variable.
 
 -- Guido Günther <agx@sigxcpu.org>  Sat, 22 Aug 2015 12:08:41 +0200
